unit vector times Q over 4 PI epsilon 0
times that distance square which happens
to be X minus a squared that's the
repulsion due to the charge that's
nearer to you
then there's the attraction due to the
minus Q but it's a little further away
so it looks like a minus sign but it is
X plus a squared it is equal to 0 you
get 0 C is equal to 0 the two guys are
sitting exactly on top of each other you
will not see them so you see them only
because they are not on top of each
other this whole thing fails to be 0
because this a is not 0 and you can
understand why the minute a is not 0
you're closer to one of the two charges
so that cannot really cancel each other
so you got to manipulate this expression
so I will do that now Q over 4 PI
epsilon 0 you find common denominator it
remind you x plus a times X minus a is X
square minus a square and everything is
under squares in the numerator you got X
plus a squared minus X minus a square so
what does that give me I Q over 4 PI
epsilon 0 X square minus a square Square
and how about on the top can you do that
in your head this is going to be X
square plus a square plus 2x a you're
going to subtract from it X square plus
a squared minus 2x a the only thing that
will survive will be 4x a
everything okay